+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Willingness to Share Emotion Information on Social Media: Influence of Personality and Social Context"
time_start = 2018-10-04T11:30:00
time_end = 2018-10-04T12:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "IEEE International Conference on Data Science and Advanced Analytics"
event_url = "https://dsaa2018.isi.it/"
location = "Turin, Italy"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = "https://damien-datasci-blog.netlify.com/slides/DSAA_presentation.html#1"
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

ABSTRACT: Sharing personal information is an important way of communicating on social media. Among the information possibly shared, new sensors and tools allow people to share emotion information via facial emotion recognition. This paper questions whether people are prepared to share personal information such as their own emotion on social media. In the current study we examined how factors such as felt emotion,
motivation for sharing on social media as well as personality affected participants’ willingness to share self-reported emotion or facial expression online. By carrying out a Generalized Linear Mixed Model analysis, this study found that participants’ willingness to share self-reported emotion and facial expressions was influenced by their personality traits and the motivation for sharing their emotion information that they were given. From our results we can conclude that the estimated level of privacy for certain emotional information, such as facial expression, is influenced by the motivation for sharing the information online.
