+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Multivariate Body Area Network of Physiological Measures “In the Wild”: A case study with zipline activity"
time_start = 2018-06-06T12:00:00
time_end = 2018-06-08T12:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "International Conference on Methods and Techniques in Behavioral Research"
event_url = "www.measuringbehavior.org/"
location = "Manchester, United Kingdom"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

ABSTRACT: With the development of wearable sensors, it is now possible to assess the dynamic progression of physiological rhythms such as heart rate, breathing rate or galvanic skin response in ways and places and during certain activities that were previously not possible due to cost and reliability. This paper investigates the physiological changes when participating in a zipline activity. Despite the advances in sensor technology, the statistical analysis of such physiological signals remains a challenge for data analysts. This paper presents a workflow encompassing the whole process with the goal of obtaining a range of best fitting models to analyse the patterns given by these measurements “in the wild”.
