+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Dynamic Analysis of Automatic Facial Expressions Recognition ‘in the Wild’ Using Generalized Additive Mixed Models and Significant Zero Crossing of the Derivatives"
time_start = 2018-07-04T12:00:00
time_end = 2018-07-04T12:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "32nd Human Computer Interaction Conference"
event_url = "http://hci2018.bcs.org/"
location = "Belfast, United Kingdom"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://ewic.bcs.org/content/ConMediaFile/31909"
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

ABSTRACT: The analysis of facial expressions is currently a favoured method of inferring experienced emotion, and consequently significant efforts are currently being made to develop improved facial expression recognition techniques. Among these new techniques, those which allow the automatic recognition of facial expression appear to be most promising. This paper presents a new method of facial expression analysis with a focus on the continuous evolution of emotions using Generalized Additive Mixed Models (GAMM) and Significant Zero Crossing of the Derivatives (SiZer). The time-series analysis of the emotions experienced by participants watching a series of three different online videos suggests that analysis of facial expressions at the overall level may lead to misinterpretation of the emotional experience whereas non-linear analysis allows the significant expressive sequences to be identified.
