+++
date = 2017-01-01T00:00:00  # Schedule page publish date.

title = "Accuracy of Automatic Emotion Recognition from Voice"
time_start = 2019-07-11T10:30:00
time_end = 2019-07-11T10:30:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "International Society for Research on Emotion"
event_url = "https://www.isre2019.org/"
location = "Amsterdam, The Netherlands"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["deep-learning"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = "https://damien-dupre.github.io/audio_emotion_validation/ISRE_presentation.html"
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

ABSTRACT: Voice is one of the main communicative sources of evidence in interpreting the expression of emotion. Affective computing aims to create systems and algorithms that automatically analyse people's emotional state. Consequently, several companies such as Affectiva, Beyond Verbal and Audeering have developed automatic systems to analyse the vocal expression of emotions. However, little is known about the accuracy of such systems. To evaluate the accuracy of automatic emotion recognition from voice, we processed vocal expressions from the GEMEP database with "SensAI Emotion" developed by Audeering. The GEMEP database contains audio-video recordings from 10 actors performing 17 different emotional scenarios (Bänziger & Scherer, 2010). SensAI Emotion analyses emotions from speech and renders a value for 23 affective states and for valence and arousal dimensions (Eyben, Scherer, & Schuller, 2018). In terms of category recognition, the accuracy of SensAI labeling GEMEP vocal expressions of emotion is 6.67%. However, this low result is partly due to the high number of different affective state labels recognized. To bypass this label matching bias, we compared the recognition accuracy for valence and arousal dimensions. The results show an accuracy of 0.56 (CI95%[0.46,0.65]) for valence and 0.73 (CI95%[0.64,0.81]) for arousal recognition. Vocal automatic emotion recognition is a growing research area in affective computing. The categorical recognition of emotion remains a challenge due to the diversity of affective states. However, the accuracy of a system like SensAI Emotion provides promising results in the recognition of valence and arousal.
